Dvclive api reference (#2632)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/dvclive/api-reference/next_step.md

# dvclive.next_step()

> Signals that the current step has ended and saves _summary metrics_ to a
> `.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signals that the current step has ended and optionally saves _summary metrics_ to a
`.json`.
```

This also can do more, right? Like trigger the html report or make a checkpoint. Specifying everything `next_step` can do in the description might be challenging to maintain. Is there a way to summarize, or maybe refer back to `init` for details? What do you think?

Author: Good point. Probably refer back to `init` would be nice

Author: Updated with a reference to `init parameters`. Not sure about the current state though as I still specify "everything" in the `Description` section bellow.

Author: Would it make sense to move the different behaviors (i.e. enabling/disabling summary/html/checkpoints) to "Example" sections, like in https://dvc.org/doc/api-reference/open#example-use-data-or-models-from-a-dvc-repository ? 

@jorgeorpinel

Reviewer: That's a good idea. I'm not sure if those belong here or in `init`, but as long as we link between them, either is probably fine.

```py
def next_step() -> None:
```

#### Usage:

```py
import dvclive

for step in range(3):

>     dvclive.log("metric", step * step)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dvclive.log("metric", 0.9)
```
For consistency and because it's probably clearer than `step * step`.

>     dvclive.nex_step()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    dvclive.next_step()
```

# dvclive.next_step()

Signals that the current step has ended. Check the
[init parameters](/doc/dvclive/api-reference/init#parameters) for configuring

> the behavior.

Reviewer 2: > Signals that the current step has ended.

What's a step? A step of what?

Reviewer 2: > Check the init parameters...

This info should probably be in a quick `init()` mention at the beginning of the **Description**, I think (same as I mentioned for `dvclive.log`).

```py
def next_step()
```

#### Usage:

```py
import dvclive

for step in range(3):
    dvclive.log("metric", 0.9)
    dvclive.next_step()
```

## Description

Each call to `dvclive.next_step` will behave depending on the selected
[init parameters](/doc/dvclive/api-reference/init#parameters) and whether `DVC`

> is available or not.

Reviewer 2: Good Description start here already. But I would just mention briefly that this function uses DVCLive config parameters `summary` and `path` which default to `True` and `dvclive` but can be defined via `init()` (or DVC env but that's also better explained in the `init()` ref.).

Probably no need to complicate this ref with the DVC integration info, as it can be covered in it's own section of the description ⏳

If `summary` is True, on each `dvclive.next_step()` call, `dvclive` will

> generate a _summary_ of the metrics previously logged with `dvclive.log` and

Reviewer 2: No links?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `summary` is True, on each `dvclive.next_step()` call, DVCLive will
generate a summary of the values previously logged with `dvclive.log`, and
```

> increase the `_step` count.

Reviewer 2: What is `_step`? Looks special with `_`

Author: Nothing special, At some point I was thinking to use `_` to indicate that this was an internal property but given that the term `step` is already defined and used everywhere it probably doesn't makes sense

> The _metrics summary_ (usable by `dvc metrics`) will be saved to `{path}.json`,
> being `path` the one defined in [dvclive.init](/doc/dvclive/api-reference/init).
> 
> The resulting _summary_ of the above code block would be:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "step": 2,
>   "metric": 0.9
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
The _metrics summary_ will be saved to `{path}.json`. Here's an example:

```json
{
  "step": 2,
  "metric": 0.9
}
```

>💡 These JSON files can be visualized  `dvc metrics`.

````

If `dvclive` is used alongside `DVC`, on each `dvclive.next_step()`, `dvclive`
will create a [checkpoint](/doc/user-guide/experiment-management/checkpoints).
In addition, if `html` is True, on each `dvclive.next_step()` call, `DVC` will

> prepare an _html report_ with all the _metrics logs_ logged in `path`.

Reviewer 2: ⌛ This is the DVC integration section of the description I was referring to. I think it's best to concentrate all DVC-specific info here. Could even have it's own H3 title if needed.

Reviewer 2: `_html report_` -> `HTML report`
